## WWCDC Front End Hack night first timer's guide

### What is Front End?

When someone says “frontend” of the web, what they really mean is the part of the website or web application that a person can visually see and interact with. As the name states “Front-End” is the part of the code that is on the front of the application. The main purpose of the front-end code is to interact with user, as well as present the data in a well-defined style, and structure. It usually consists of two parts: 

* the design - aesthetics of the website or application, understanding element arrangements on the screen, the color and font choices

* front end web development or client-side development- development of those elements of a website that the customer sees and interacts with directly. This piece involves programming skills, comprising mainly of **HTML**, **CSS**, and **Javascript** but certainly not limited to them.

### What is Front End Development?

The focus of this study group is **Front End Development**, we appreciate designers to join and share their wisdom, but the purpose of the group is to encourage every one to code. 

A front end developer is the bridge connecting the designer and the back end developer. A web designer creates visual design and layout of the website,  the web developer takes that design and vision from a static design to a fully working website that is online and available to the world. A back-end developer builts the underderlying architecture and functionality of the app around it. 

Almost all the elements that you see, and interact with on any website is a mixture of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, which are all controlled by the browser. For example, if you’re using Google Chrome, Firefox or Safari, the browser is what translates all of the code in a manner for you to see and with which to interact, such as fonts, colors, drop-down menus, images, forms, etc. 

### What tools do I need?

* Laptop/PC: Front end development is not restricted by the machine you are using, you can start coding on PCs, Macs, or Linux machines. 

* Text Editor: we donot and should not code in regular word processors, you would need user-friendly text editors that does syntax highlighting. These are some that we recommend:
  * [Sublime Text](http://www.sublimetext.com/)
  * [TextWrangler](http://www.barebones.com/products/textwrangler/) - MAC only
  * [Notepad++](http://notepad-plus-plus.org/)
  
* Git and GitHub: Version control is a really important part of any professional developer's toolkit. It helps with saving your work, collaboration, and managing changes. You would need an account on Git installed on your computer, and an account on Github. For an introduction to Git and Github, refer our [Intro to Git presentation](http://nupurkapoor.github.io/intro-to-git/#/)

* [JSFiddle](http://jsfiddle.net/): An online custom environment to test your HTML, CSS, and Javascript. You can save the fiddles you create and share fiddles with others. Refer [official docs](http://doc.jsfiddle.net/tutorial.html).

* Patience and Support from each other! 

### Basics

There are many technologies and programming languages that contribute to the web, we'll discuss what lies within the group's focus:

#### HTML (Hyper Text Markup Language) 
HTML is a an example of a widely known and used markup language. It is responsible for creating a markup of your website's content, letting the browser read it and display it correctly. Markup is the structure of the page, layout of your content. It is the foundation of websites, essential for search engine optimization(SEO). A markup language specifies code for formatting, both the layout, and style, within a text file. The code used to specify the formatting are called tags. 

#### CSS (Cascading Style Sheet)
CSS is the place where we bring all the colors, backgrounds, font sizes, layouts, grids etc. to life, it helps define the look and feel of the markup generated by HTML. A single CSS change can affect the entire mood and tone of a Web site. The term *Style sheet* refers to the document itself. A web page can have one or multiple style sheets. 


	HTML and CSS are the building blocks of all web development, so it’s important to know these two technologies really well. Together they form the bare bones of a web a page so being able to write custom HTML and CSS is an extremely important skill. It's also very important to understand how these two technologies work together: HTML sets the structure on the page and CSS styles the way it looks.
	

#### Javascript
JavaScript is the most advanced language of all three which enables us to interact with user in form of sliders, drop-down menus, quizzes, and many more interactive elements where sky is the limit.

For an introduction Javascript, refer our [Intro to JS presentation](http://nupurkapoor.github.io/js-study-group/)

#### Javascript Libraries

